# Using Kart and GitHub for versioning and collaborating with GIS data in an Archaeological Research Project.

Version control systems (VCS), first applied to the development of software, it is now one of the common way through which scientists collaborate and keep track of different versions of their work. Among VCS, Git is probably the most widely adopted. Moreover, scientists, programmers, etc., have been using sites like GitHub to host and share their resources versioned through Git. While not as widely adopted as in other disciplines, Git is being used also in archaeological researches. In fact, version control provides scholars with advantages like remote collaboration through commit history, branches, etc. Moreover, it offers the transparency necessary for the development of Open Science. Both of these elements are crucial to reproducible research practices. However, one issue with git is that version control of GIS data (shapefiles, geopackages) is inefficient, due to the fact that commits cannot be displayed correctly, and it is cumbersome to track changes.

In 2020, a company named Koordinates launched Kart (formerly Sno), described as "an open-source distributed version control system for geospatial and tabular data built on git". Kart addresses the needs for collaboration and finer versioning of geospatial data, while also providing an integration with the open-source software QGIS. Kart and code hosting websites provide unique resources for archaeologists, from straightforward collaboration, to efficient hosting of digital knowledge and workflows. 

In this paper, we will present how we are using Kart, QGIS, and GitHub in our project "Governance Policies and Political Landscapes in the Southern Levant under the Neo-Assyrian Empire". With our case study we hope to provide a solution to the current gap in the workflow of documentation and collaboration among archaeologists using GIS. We will also introduce how we are managing the project in an open and transparent way through Git and GitHub itself.
